# Target Outcomes
## Article ID: TvdWP
## Article doi: http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cognition.2016.10.001

For this article you should focus on the findings reported in section 2.1. Results. Specifically, you should attempt to reproduce all descriptive and inferential analyses reported in the text below and associated tables/figures:

> To analyze how the length of available historical data and the mode of learning affected risk taking, we evaluated participants’ investment behavior during the evaluation window (periods 100–172), in which participants in all four conditions made portfolio choices and experienced their financial consequences. We used the “new statistics” (Cumming, 2012) to compare conditions, reporting the difference in mean risk taking as a measure of effect size and the 95% confidence interval of that difference.

> What is the impact of a shock on risk taking? The measure of risk taking R is defined as the proportion of a person’s investment in the index fund (vs. the safe cash deposit). The lower panel of Fig. 1 shows the average trends in risk taking as a function of each condition. Fig. 2 shows the average R measure (collapsed across all periods). Recall that some participants learned about the initial downward trend from either experience or description. Those participants took similar financial risks (shock condition; Rs = 29.7%) as did participants who were unaware of the trend (no-shock condition; Rns = 32.5%), Rs–ns = −2.8%, 95% CI [−7.2%, 1.6%].2 However, awareness of the shock affected participants who learned from description differently than it did those who learned from experience. Participants who learned from description took almost identical risk in the shock (Rsd = 37.1%) and no-shock conditions (Rnsd = 38.1%), Rsd–nsd = −1% [−7%, 5%]. However, historical prices had a small but discernible effect on the investment behavior of participants who experienced the market: Participants in the shock experience condition took less risk (Rse = 22.4%) than did participants in the no-shock experience condition (Rnse = 26.9%). Although this difference in the average R may not indicate a true population difference, Rse–nse = −4.5% [−11%, 1.7%], Fig. 3 shows that in 82% of the periods of the evaluation window, participants who did not experience the shock took more financial risk than participants who did. This 4.5% absolute difference translates into a relative difference in risk taking of 20% in participants who did not experience the shock. Importantly, participants who experienced the shock also took less risk than participants who learned about it from description, Rse–sd = −14.7% [−20%, −0.1%].


**Note**
Make sure to use the original article for additional context and information about any necessary pre-processing steps. Also check for additional supplementary materials that may provide supporting documentation for analysis procedures.
